SLIDE How to Manual
Definition
SLIDE, or the Suspected Landslide IDentification Environment is a web-based application that provides easily accessible and understandable landslide risk assessments. 
Website
Upon arriving at earthalert.world, users will be prompted to provide their location to the website. If they accept, the google map will zoom to their location and show a marking indicating their position. Areas at a high risk as predicted by the NASA Global Landslide Nowcast model are shown in red on the map. The website will identify if users are in a high risk error and display a color-coded bar based on the threat level. If users decline to provide their location, the website will display the entire world with the Landslide model threat assessment. Users can then pan and zoom to any location of interest. Users have the option to add a text based report at their location that will be entered in a database and then reports will be displayed on the map for other users to access. Additionally, users can upload images to the map that will then be accessible by other community members and first responders. The landslide forecast model is dynamically updated based on user reports allowing for community members to help those around them. Our model also incorporates socio economic data to elevate the threat level for areas that may lack the infrastructure to respond to a disaster. Additional preparation information is provided on the website to allow users in a high risk area to take appropriate action. 
SMS Messaging Notifications 
For individuals without Internet access, there are two options for text messaging notifications. If a message is sent to the SLIDE number without numbers, the location of the phone will be retrieved and a text message will be send with the current threat level. Individuals can also send a pair of lat,lon coordinates in order to see the danger level at any location on Earth. This threat level is derived from the Global Landscape Nowcast combined with user reports and socio economic data. Text messaging services are available anywhere with cell coverage. 
